so just maybe two words of introduction
about myself I'm Anders scam from
University of Copenhagen I'm a zoologist
and a neurologist and what interested me
during the last 105 years is especially
sensory organs how are sensory organs
organized to pick up the exact
information any animal need at at any
given time uh I've been working both on
chemo reception mechano reception
Electro reception uh but most of my work
has been done on on Photo reception and
especially vision so I worked quite a
bit with eyes uh how eyes work and how
they differ between animals and and how
that supports different kind of of
visually guided behaviors and and what
I've become more and more interested in
during the last few years is is visual
processing what actually happens uh with
the information eyes pick up uh
afterwards in in the brain and how that
then of course in the end turns out to
control the behavior and that's of
course some of the things I'm I'm going
to talk about today uh I've also been
working with quite a few different
animals Crustaceans echinoderms analyes
but one of my favorite groups have
always been narian uh for for several
reasons and and the picture you see here
is one of my my favorite pets uh the
tribus offra which is is a small box
jellyfish from the Caribbean and and
that's going to be the main topic today
uh there are many reasons to to look at
narian I I believe but but one of the
things I would like to convince you is
that that they are a really cool model
animals because in many ways they're
they're pretty simple hopefully allowing
us to understand things in in in pretty
great
details so so what I'll do today is
first because I I sort of realized that
you probably don't know these animals as
well as I do so I will introduce you to
to the animals their visual system some
of their visually guided behaviors and
and how their nervous system is is
organized and then in the end we will of
course talk about these learning
experiments that we did and and
published last year so so this is the
the Box jelly fishion just for you to
get the proportions right this is pretty
small box jellyish the diameter of the
Bell is about three c 2 cm maximum and
the tentacles get about 4 centimeters
maximum so so pretty small species which
is also nice for for our work in in the
lab uh but uh just to make sure that
uh we are uh on the same page here so
here we have have a phenny of the narian
uh the six classes that is typically
recognized now uh the most basic group
are the anos you probably know all the C
anies and and corals here a small very
strange group called The mixas which are
parasitic group just recently added to
to the Nigerians and then we have the
major group here which together we call
the mosor of course because they have a
Medusa in their life cycle and in here
we find the Cubans or the box jellyfish
as a sister group to the more commonly
known jellyfish those you know as the
lion main the one we have here or the
moon jelly uh which is also a skyo but
the C Cubans here is just group to those
Medusa it's a small class with only
about 60 described species most of them
are in the tropics but they're also
found in in the
subtropics uh these are some of the
species we've been working on um and if
some of you have heard about box
jellyfish before it's it's very likely
because of this sign you see up here to
the right uh from Northern Australia
where they warn you against Marine
stingers and and the one they
particularly warn you again is this one
over here kirix Fleer ey which is
potentially one of the most venomous
animals in the world at least it it on a
regular basis kills people in in
Australia there statistics says that 3 m
of tentacle if if that's you get in
contact with that you will have a chance
you'll probably die of a heart attack
within two minutes so it's a it's a
pretty strong nerve toxin uh so we have
done work on that but to spare our
students we have been focusing on on
tribalia down here uh which as I said
before is a very small species from the
Caribbean and it's about as venomous as
the moon jelly so it's it's easy to
handle and and we can grow that one in
the lab so it has lots of advantages so
this is the one I'll be I'll be focusing
on today there will be data for some
other species but but mostly from tripid
Alia but maybe just a few General words
about these animals and and why so
venomous uh so uh these are are
predators and and chironex is is
specializing in in fish eating so this
here is a is a konex in in our tanks in
in Australia and here in the mangrove
and you see here it has caught a fish
and and they basically need this very
strong nerve toxin to make sure that
when they catch a fish that it just
doesn't rip their tentacles off or or
destroy the bill uh and it's pretty
pretty amazing when we feed them fishes
we've done here in the video and the
fish touches a tentacle it's it's two
tail strokes and then it's either dead
or or stunned so it's it's a pretty
efficient nerve
toxin so the reason why we interested in
them is is not the toxin but but the
initial interest came from watching
their behavior so if you look at a a
typical sky foro here like the moon
jelly they are basically without much
Behavior they're plantonic animals just
drifting in the currents and the only
thing they really control is is a little
bit their vertical position but if you
compare them with tripedalia here from
their natural habitat in in the
Caribbean you obviously see a huge
difference in the behavior the uh box
jellyfish are much more agile swimmers
they do fast turns they do directional
swimming and if you sort of forget the
shape of the animal it it looks much
more like a school of fish than than
actually jellyfish and this of course
caught our attention how how can a
jellyfish have this kind of of active
behavior and and what we pretty quickly
realized is that one of the reasons is
that they have a much more advanced
sensory System including proper eyes so
if you look at the box jellyfish here
you see these four encircled areas with
a white dot in the center and these
white dots are their sensory structures
that we call Ralia and when you blow
them up they they look like this uh so
it's sort of a a club shaped structure
with a huge crystal in the distal end
and then we have these uh six Brown
areas which are basically eyes depending
on how you want to Define eyes the the
four smaller ones to the side which
comes in pairs which we call the the pit
and the Slit eyes they're not image
forming so you can maybe call them more
appropriate for for C ey but the two
Central ones you have here which we call
the upper and lower lens eye are proper
eyes basically built like our eyes as as
the name already implies they have a
proper lens they are camera type eyes so
it's a single lens with a single pupil
and and then a hemisphere retina in the
back as as you will see in a minute so
they have four of these Ralia giving
them a total of 24 eyes of which eight
of them are are image forming so we've
been very interested in understanding uh
how these eyes work how how well do they
see the world and of course what wisly
guided behaviors do they control and and
how this information processed in in
jellyfish that if you look in the
textbook are claimed to be brainless so
so that's sort of
a a problem there for them so we've done
lots of electrophysiology so just very
quick some basic information about the
photo receptors here so what we find is
that that these eyes are slow and color
blind and and already here we sort of
can see that the amount of information
take up is is minimized so here first
just a slide showing uh the the speed of
vision and you can sort of compare to
the shorter speed of a camera uh we
operate with a term called flicker
Fusion frequency uh so what we do is we
apply a sinusoidal flickering light
stimulus uh while we record uh from the
photo receptors the output and then we
increase the frequency until their photo
receptors no longer respond and then
what will happen then is that their eyes
are basically seeing the visual stimulus
as a constant stimulus of of the average
intensity like a gray basically and what
we can see here from a night active
species where there is of course less
light and just like with your camera
then it everything BEC slower so at one
Hertz they nicely follow the stimulus
but already at three Hertz it disappears
so they have a flicker Fusion frequency
somewhere between two and and three
Hertz the two colors here are the the
upper and lower lens ey but if we take
our day active tribalia which has has
more light to operate by the speed
becomes a little faster so they have a
flicker f usion frequency up between 7
and 8 Hertz and just for you to have
something to compare with uh the fastest
eyes in the world are are from flying
insects and and there we're talking
about over 300 Hertz in in tempor
resolution and human eyes we we
somewhere in between and and depending
on on light and and how you measure it
our flicker Fusion frequency is is
between 40 and 50 htz so it's it's
pretty slow eyes not taking up much uh
information on on the in the temporal
domain uh and they're also color blind
uh again using Eis what we see here on
the graphs are the spectral sensitivity
of the photo receptors and what you'll
see is there is there's a single Peak on
on each of the curves here and and that
shows that all the photo receptors in
the eyes have the same option expressed
having the same photopigment uh and that
this means that they they don't see the
world in color they only see intensity
contrasts uh and this we've shown here
for this is are three different species
with trelia again up here to the left
and we have also confirmed these uh
results using other techniques like
microspectrophotometry transomics and
imun
chemistry uh there is a a classical
thing we find in in box jellyfish that
is also seen here is that their exact
maximum sensitivity in the spectral
domain depends on the habitat and it's
typically such that open water species
like Kula ciki here that is out in in
Ocean Blue Water is is most sensitive to
these colors so we see here a peak
sensitivity uh about 460 nanometers here
which is is s equal to the blue color of
of the ocean and that's of course
because that's the dominant wavelength
in that habitat but when you go into
coastal areas like tripedalia and
carpella here there is a green shift
from typically alile growth in the water
it becomes much more greenish and this
we also see in the spectral sensitivity
and we see here a peak sensitivity
typically a little above 400 500
nanometers which is this glue blue green
which is then dominating in in that
habitat so again nicely matching their
habitat and and no color information so
again minimizing the information uptake
but of course one of the most important
things about vision is the spal
resolution how fine details does the eye
resolve of of the surroundings and of
course maybe not surprising what we find
in in these eyes is pretty blurry VIs
they they don't see many details but
interestingly what we did was when you
see the crosssection here or
longitudinal section ofum you see they
they connect to the Animal by this stalk
here they have the heavy crystal in in
the distal end and then we have the two
lens eye sectioned along the the midline
here and you see the single spherical
lens here looking like basically a fish
eye and then the hemisphere shaped
retina in the back here bordered by
screening pigment ensuring that light
can only enter through the pupil here
and the red lines are indicating our uh
Ray tracing mathematical modeling of how
light behaves in these lenses uh after
we have measured the refractive index of
these lenses and and what we see
especially in in the upper lens eye is
that it's actually a pretty good lens
the image is focused really nicely to a
single spot uh with very little uh with
a very small blur spot it's not so well
focused in the lower lens eye where the
blur spot somewhat bigger but what you
of course realize is is that the image
Falls Way outside the retina uh so that
of course creates on the retina a huge
blur spot and what that results in is
it's a space resolution depending on
where you are in the retina between 10
and 20 degrees which again means that
they have a really strong what we call
low pass filtering that only see low
spatial frequencies huge objects uh
giving them very blurry vision and again
just to to give you something to compare
to your Optimum uh resolution is in your
phobia and it's it's about a minute of
an arc um or and that and that's sort of
0.016 degrees so they have about a
thousand times worse Vision that that we
have and just to let you see how that
the world appears to them we of course
put them on a roller coaster uh on Santa
Monica beach and and modeled how they
would see this and and uh this is how
the human eye resolution would see and
of course we see lots of detail details
in on the roller coaster in the sky on
the beach and whatnot but with this
blurry vision all these details are
filtered away so the only thing that
sort of makes a contrast on the retina
are huge objects and this of course
already tells us that that it's only
large objects they're interested in
seeing and and you can fairly ask the
question can you support any visually
guided behaviors with this very blurry
vision and and luckily enough you can
say both for our research and and for
the jellyfish the answer to this is is
yes you can actually do quite a bit even
though you have this blurry vision uh
and some of the things we have shown
that they do visually uh is uh obstacle
avoidance uh making sure that they don't
bump into objects in the surroundings
they navigate their habitats using
vision and then they also detect large
food Gatherings using Vision so things
can still be done even though you you
have this poor spacial resolution and
just can I ask you something yeah of
course
can you go back two
slides yes this one one
more I mean yeah why do you think it
evolved this way why didn't the lens or
the retina evolve in a way so that the
the picture is in Focus that's that's a
very good question and we of course
asked ourselves the same why not just
have the same lens focused directly on
the retina so uh one of the things that
actually happens here is and and this I
didn't mention is that what you create
especially in the upper lens ey and this
you also have to realize you can see
that the for receptors are oblique these
are very special asymmetric visual
fields of each of the photo receptors
and interestingly enough those uh visual
Fields looks like the visual fields of
typical motion detectors in other eyes
so what we think they're doing we
haven't directly proven this only I mean
just by by sort of indicating it
comparing to these motion detections is
that they can shape the visual field
much more precisely in this way by
combining the this this typical way of
uh this special way of blurring with the
orientation of the photo spors and this
gives special filtering properties to
the photo receptors directly so you
don't need the circuitry to actually get
a motion detector you can have it
directly built in to the visual field of
a single photo
receptor so this as I said before we
haven't directed Pro this but this is
the hypothesis that that we
have sorry I probably have like uh also
question about that multiple eyes so
it's sort of a like triangulation yeah
happening so it's can um you could
imagine that they could do that for
distance detection but but the idea in
having many eyes is also part of this
match filtering you can sort of also
compare it to spider eyes so by by
having many eyes you go from a vision
system like in our eyes which we call
multi-purpose eyes so that means that we
have one set of eyes that pick up all
visual information and then we of course
have an enormous brain that has to sort
out that information afterwards
basically 30 billion neurons doing this
but when you have many eyes what you can
do is you can have special purpose eyes
so you can have each eye specialized to
pick up only a certain part of the
visual World special part of information
and that takes away a lot of processing
power for the brain and and this is
extremely important for for this system
here because they have so few neurons so
actually process the information so by
having many eyes each eye can be
specialized for a certain type of
information and minimizing the need for
processing
power thank
you continue that question that mean
that that mean that each specialized
eyes have a different
purpose and a different decision yeah
what what will happen if one eye will
see something and make the decision to
go to that world yeah and the other I
see something else to go to this world
that's a that's a super interesting
question I would actually address if if
you have a little patience I will
address this later on when we come to
how the nervous system is organized okay
thank
you so uh uh just to understand the
visual world of these animals and and
their visually guided behaviors we just
I just just going to show you a little
bit about how the habitat looks like uh
so so they're living in the mangrove
swarms in the Caribbean and and you
probably know how mango is organized you
have these open lagunas here and then
they're bordered by the mangr trees that
stand out with their prop roots in into
the um uh seawater here these are the
prop roots coming down and then in
between these prop Roots you see these
small openings H and and these openings
is what you see here in this in the
large Central image and that's where you
find the jellyfish swimming happily
around here just close to the surface
and you see the prop roots coming down
here and another important thing you see
here are all the small wild dots because
that's the reason why they're there in
between the prop Roots you have a high
concentration of cober pots which is
what they feed on and they're so
efficient in doing this that they catch
a cober pot every other second H and and
these cob pots are only present under
the canopies not out in the lagona so if
they were out there they would starve to
death so so they have to be in here so
that's their microhabitat is in here in
between the roots uh which becomes
important later and another thing that
is that is important to understand is a
very special organization of of these
Ralia their visual system and this is
how they they are orienting them uh we
of course know from ourselves that we
have very complex muscular musculature
controlling the eyes and giving feedback
to the brain so we know exactly where we
pick up information and this this takes
quite a a lot of brain power to control
this so they do it completely different
so as I said before they have a heavy
crystal in the distal end and and if you
look in the literature it's been called
a stat assy basically a gravity sensing
device but that's that's fraud they
don't do that it's basically a weight
that ensures that no matter how the
jellyfish orients in the gravity field
the crystal make the stalk Bend such
that the rellum is always upright so no
matter how the jellyfish rims around has
completely control over the vertical
part of the visual field it doesn't have
to bother about where the information is
picked up it's always coming from the
same direction in each separate eye uh
so that means that that some of the eyes
are looking upwards and some of some of
them are are looking
downwards so if we look at the visual
fields of of these uh four different
visual structures we have that the pit
and the upper lens eye are gazing
upwards towards the the surface of the
water whereas the SL eye and the lower
lens eye are observing the Underwater
World obliquely
downwards uh so uh the two eyes we'll be
focusing on are are the upper and the
lower lens eyes because these are the
image forming ones and these are the
ones we we basically understand the best
and we'll we'll start with the lower
lens side down here and what they do
with this one is basically obstacle
avoidance so this here is is now not
tribalia but Kiron swimming in the
mangrove in in the in Australia yeah and
they also live in in the mangr swamps as
you can see and even though they are
have half a meter long tentacles they
easily navigate here and you see when
they come AC close to a root just before
touching it they turn around uh so of
course we hypothesize that this obstacle
avoidance that is characterized by this
120 to 180 degrees turning with
increased pulse rate to swim fast that
this was visually guided so we tested
this in in a setup here where we could
control with artificial obstacles and
and a slow low current here forcing the
jellyfish that way how they respond to
different visual scenes and what you see
up in the top one here is that a visible
one I mean they don't have color vision
so red will def basically be black to
them uh so when they come close to it as
will it will now in a second what you
see is just as we saw in the video
before it will approach it and just a
couple of centimeters before touching it
it will turn around
now and swim away but down here we have
seethrough obstacles under the water and
you can see the poor jellyfish here I
apologize for the low contrast in the
animal but there is actually a jellyfish
pulsing down here uh and even though the
mechano receptors are actually telling
the jellyfish that it's about to destroy
its body but because it can't see the
obstacle it can't avoid it so it
actually keeps on trying to fight its
way past this one until it dies so this
clearly shows that this is a visy guided
Behavior the on the lower lens eye is is
seeing these obstacles and making them
able to avoid them before bumping into
them so this gives them a pretty
interesting dial Rhythm uh so as I said
before during the day they swim around
in between the pop Roots here where the
food is and and they feed uh as as long
as there's light up and they use the
lower lens eye for these obstacle
avoidance behaviors but the problem is
at at the sunset it becomes too dark for
them to see the roots and then it's too
dangerous to be in there so what happens
is that they sink to the bottom and
swims a couple of meters up to five six
meters out into the lagona where they
then anchor themselves to seaweed or SE
grass and another very interesting story
is that here they actually display a
sleep-like
state uh and then they lie there
motionless all night and then at Sunrise
they sort of wake up and then they
resurface and then they have to find
their way back because out here they
would stop so they need to be able to
navigate back back between the prop
roots and what we hypothesized was that
they actually see because the the mro
water is pretty murky so you can't see
the roots when you're a meter
away but o but but the air is of course
clear so we hypothesized that they
actually look out through Snell's
window and then see the canopies and
then navigate by the canopies and then
of course eventually getting to the
roots when you swim towards the
canopies uh so we tested this with the
the upper lens ey and and pretty
interesting what we could show was that
the visual field of this upper lensi
that is constantly pointing straight
upwards due to this heavy crystal is
just under 100 degrees and this matches
a very interesting physical phenomenon
you probably heard about this Snell's
window so basically what that says is
from snail's law is that when light
comes from air and passes through the
water surface it refracts and this means
that
180 of the terrestrial world this
hemisphere here is compressed into a
cone of exactly just under 100 degrees
in the water so what that means of
course is that the opalin ey has a
visual feeli that exactly matches
snail's window so all the visual
information since there are at the
surface that that eye gets is from land
so they actually use this uh eye to gaze
up on land and then see the canopy and
orent water and we showed with behavior
experiments that they can only navigate
in the right direction when they have
the visual input if we block the canopy
uh in the morning they're completely
disoriented and can't find the proper
direction so the upper L ey is actually
casing up on on land and see the
terrestrial world for this navigation
every morning back to their their
feeding
habitat so we have this Rhythm where
they every day spend the time in between
the proper Roots feeding sleep at night
out in in the mango floor here on the
bottom and then in morning they rise to
the surface and then they look out to
snail's window and use the opal insai to
see the canopies and and navigate back
to their
habitat so one of the questions is of
course with these behaviors how when you
have these relatively complex behaviors
you have to have some kind of of central
nervous system to to control this so the
question is of course is is there a
Jelly Brain and and if you look in the
classical Zoological literature they the
they say no they they say Naran has this
typical Nerf net structure and that's
all they have but but when you look
closer that's not true this nerve net is
definitely present but it's mostly the
motor neurons and it's actually a very
ingenious way to control that they have
synchronous contractions of of the Bell
so they can shrim straight but the
question is of course what is there
brain or or are they actually brainless
and um and and they do have a pretty
well- defined central nervous system
actually and this here is is the the
model model we made of of the central
nervous system in in
tripedalia uh so you have this nerve
ring that encircles the oral part of of
the bell and initially people thought
that might be the central part but but
what we find is that it's basically a
relay system that allows the four Ralia
to communicate with each
other because the four Ralia each have
uh a pretty complex nervous system that
we call the the rali nervous system um
and uh that should be you no that was an
image there should have been an image oh
yeah I just have your pictures on top of
it so you see up here uh just a part of
this rali nervous system that lies
behind the the lens eyes and here we
just use one uh antibody from a a
specific uh neurotransmitter to show
Just One of the subsystems uh so there
are several subsystem subsystem systems
in there with with pretty complex
connectivity so we hypothesize that it's
in the Ralia that the advanced things
are happening and and if you look here
this only holds approximately thousand
neurons and and this is one of the
things that that makes us very
interested in this because these
thousand neurons are apparently able to
do all the visual processing uh and as
you will hear later also able to to do
associative learning and we really hope
that this simple system allows us to dig
into all the
details so we can separate them first in
in three overall populations just from
where they're placed and and their
morphology so there's some we call flank
neurons we have some retinal Associated
neurons and then we have giant neurons H
and what we also find in here uh that
indicates that this this is where
processing happens is that there is very
many neuroem sign upses there are the
the classical nigarian signups you see
down here in the bottom the
bidirectional bidirectional signups
where there's not a sort of a predefined
post and press synaptic cell there are
synapse vesicles on on both side of of
the sinapse so they can act as as either
both of them but we also find quite a
bit and this is also often forgotten in
in textbooks we find quite a bit very
normal unidirectional synapses uh which
is often needed for for proper
information
processing so we have quite a few of
those also where where you of course has
a have a well defined pre and post
synaptic
cell and again as I said before we also
find that this repel nervous system has
quite a few subsystems defined by by
immun estain uh and this is just one of
them just to show we have the giant
neurons here and and they become
important for the learning because they
are uh pacemakers uh they are uh the
central patent generators you can say
and each time the Giant neurons fire uh
the Bel do one swim contraction and
they're part of of RF Amite uh positive
system here that that controls the swim
Behavior Uh the the swim contraction and
and they of course connect up here
through the stalk up into the ring nerve
and and thereby to to the
muscles uh and and now we come to what
happens when um when two eyes see you
can say conflicting information and um
we don't fully understand this but but
we've done some interesting results and
and um a colleague Rick satle already
back in in the 70s did some really
interesting results uh on this and and
what he could show was that these Ralia
they don't act as parallel brains as you
would see it in a in a computer kind of
of uh meaning they are separate units
that inhibit each other so what he could
show was that when one pacemaker fires
in in one rellum it goes up into the
ring nerve and then it enters the next
the neighboring repia through the stalk
and then it inhibits the activity of the
pacemaker in that one so you can say it
in in a in a popular way that what we
can show is that at any given moment
it's only one rellum that controls the
animal the three other Ralia are
silenced so you can say the rum that's
sees the most important at any given
time overrules the others and then
controls the animal and of course that
will then change if you can say an
immediate danger then appears in the
visual field of one of the other Ralia
then that one will increase their
Pacemaker and overrules the others and
then control the
animal so even though they have these
four parall systems they do not sort of
um you can say they they don't uh
collaborate they sort of overrule each
other and then one at a time control the
animal can I ask a real quick question
yes of course so so this brings up some
interesting questions right so so um if
the two rellas are seeing two different
things how do they decide which one is
important yeah um and which one to
follow um also what happens if they are
seeing two different things
simultaneously you know then um I'm
assuming they will send off this action
potential to each other then which one
gets inhibited and which one keeps up so
that's definitely true you could you
could we could dig down into this in
much more detail and and ask these
different questions we have we have
tried this but it's at least in our
experiment it's been extremely hard to
give equal stimulations to to the same
Ralia so we we haven't really answered
but but I I'm sure that that it would be
possible to sort of confuse the
jellyfish in in in ways that it won't be
able to respond in a proper way H but
what we see in in in the mimics we have
of the natural habitat is that it it
seems to work at least in in the way the
habitat looks like um so so what we see
is the the way it works how how do they
determ what is is um is the most
important is is basically the the
strength of the stimulus that uh that
they receive will result in a higher
frequency a higher Fire frequency of
these output neurons and it's it's the
the the the frequency that determines
whether it over rules the others or
not that's at least what our data I I
will not claim that we have uh not even
near to a complete understanding of this
but this is what our data is saying so
far very
cool uh so so to learning now so we
wanted to to ask how much can happen in
a thousand neurons and and at least
think that one of the most complex
things we know that happens in nervous
system is the ability to learn to at
different levels of course and we of
course not the first ones that have
asked whether nid Arians can learn and
and already back in the in the 50s and
60s a lot of classical experiments were
done especially on on Hydra which is the
classical model system within in narian
the freshwater polyp and and here it was
very clearly shown that they display the
simplest form of learning like
habituation as as this uh experiment
here shows that just like any any other
sensory system basically what happens is
that when you repeat stimuli it stops
responding slowly habituating to to the
stimulus and if you give it another type
of stimulus you can show it's not
because it's fatigue it's not running
out of energy and another stimulus will
reactivate the the system so they show
this kind of habituation so that has
been known for a long time that that
Nigerians do this and actually also
pretty early there were indications of
of advanced learning in this uh there
were indication of associative learning
in in um in CN enemies but but but these
experiments uh had had some some
problems first of all uh they they did
as classical conditioning and and the
condition stimuli was uh extremely
strong electrical shocks they they gave
them 50 shocks of 32 volts 5 seconds
each and and they didn't look for this
but this very likely implemented lots of
of damage to the to the tissue
especially the the nerve cells so so
that leaves some problems analyzing or
understanding the results and also as
the unconditional stimulus they used a
bright flash of Light which is
indifferent to the CN enemies so and an
unnatural stimulus but but still they
they could show something that resembled
associative learning so so we wanted to
uh to look further into this and and get
more firm proof of of how this actually
might happen in narian and and to do
this we actually went back uh to some
very early uh experiments we did more
than 10 years ago where we looked at
this again the obstacle avoidance
response you have tripedalia here in in
our behavioral Arena and here we can of
course change the visual scene and you
see an obstacle avoidance response there
uh and and change how the visual world
is and and what we asked back then was
how do they respond to different
contrasts and of course the contrast is
between the gray bar here which which
should mimic a prop route and then a
white bar that should mimic the Open
Water between the The Roots so how do
they respond to these uh when we change
contrast between this and what we found
was uh very interesting because what we
saw that with increasing contrast they
stayed further and further and further
away from the roots until when we had
black and white stripes with a a
contrast of of 0.9 they constantly made
obstacle avoidances and were centered in
the middle of the Arena all the time
and what it turn turned out to be was a
very important part of their obstacle
avoidance behavior because in order to
do this in a meaningful way they need to
know when to turn basically they had to
know the distance to the root if they
turn too early then they have uh too
little time feeding between the roots if
they turn too late of course then they
would bump into the root and and damage
their body so what they actually using
is the the the um the contrast as a
proxy for distance and this is all Al
what this image has showed for is is
showing that of course it also happens
in air but over very long distances and
and that's why mountains are hazy in the
distance but underwater this this
decline in in contrast happens very fast
so a root clear uh close by has a high
contrast whereas roots in the background
have have low contrast so this can be
used as a proxy for distance but what we
realized was that this also poses a
problem for the animal because this uh
relationship between distance and
contrast is nowhere near constant it
changes with the quality of the water
has it been raining is there an alile
Bloom has there been wave actions so
they have to learn every day what how
clear is the water today how is the
relationship between contrast and
distance today and that was where we
thought now we have the proper way where
we can use natural stimuli to test the
natural stimulation where they should be
able to learn so the hypothesis we put
up was that they would use a combination
of the visual input basically seeing the
contrast of the root and then mechanical
input stress from uh unsuccessful
avoidances when they have thought the
roote was further away but then bumped
into it and combining these two sets of
information which of course makes it
associative learning they would learn
that in given day the contrast is
distance relationship and this and that
and then they know when to
turn so so this hypothesis uh we then
tested in two different ways we did it
first as uh behavioral experiments in
our Arena using naive whole animals so
what we did was we put them into the
behavior arena with a Simi low contrast
uh visual scene with the root mimic
having a simar low contrast to uh the
Wide Open Water mimic and what happens
when you put a naive jellyfish in there
that hasn't seen this world before is
that it would think due to the low
contrast that the roots are at a safe
distance so initially they would have a
pretty high uh rate of contrast of of
contacts of bumping in into the wall and
they will stay at a pretty close
distance but what we could show that
already within seven and a half minute
the jellyfish learn to stay further and
further away have more and more
successful avoidances and of course most
importantly for the jellyfish fewer and
fewer uh contacts fewer and fewer
unsuccessful uh so this supported our
hypothesis that they were actually
learning this from these unsuccessful um
Optical avoidances and what we also
tested was that it's not just because
they don't swim around so much because
they kept the same swim speed throughout
these uh experiments so it indicated
learning and actually to our surprise it
indicated fast learning already in in
seven and a half minutes uh and then we
did a couple of control experiments to
make sure that that our interpretation
was right so we could in two different
experiments take away either the
mechanical stimulus or the visual
stimulus so in the mechanical control
here we gave them high contrast which
means that they never touch the wall and
here we see a constant High distance to
the wall we see a constant High rate of
successful avoidances and no contacts
basically no learning no change of
behavior so that again supported the
hypo ithis and then we did the opposite
where we could take away the visual
stimulus by giving them a uniform gray
wall there would be no contrast and it
had the intensity there was an average
between the black and the white bar over
here so when you put a jellyfish in here
it start bumping into the sides right
away so we have a constant low uh
average distance to the wall very very
few avoidances and a constant High
Collision rate with the wall no change
of behavior again no learning so all of
this match the hypothesis that when they
can combine mechanical and visual input
they learn to stay away from these low
contrast routs in the
experiment so to verify this we also
wanted to do classical conditioning and
here we took advantage of the fact that
we can cut off the eyes along with the
rellan nervous system just by chopping
off them here at the stalk and we can
keep those alive happily for a full day
in the lab in in seawater
uh and then we could control the
experiments much better so we had as a
pro of course now we don't have the
jellyfish oops we don't have the
jellyfish so we couldn't see the
behavior but luckily enough as you saw
before the obstacle avoidance behavior
has a neurological fingerprint and
that's the increased swim rate when it
turns so we could record the output from
the swim Pace maker as a proxy for the
behavior so we know when that rellum is
telling the animal now we want to do the
turn
uh and then we could control the
orientation and then we could present
root mimics to the lower lens eye uh and
see when would it initiate the
behavior and what we could then see is
that with naive Ralia we have three
different contrast 2 point4 and point8
and the naive Ralia only responded to
the highest contrast and then we did the
classical conditioning and here we gave
them only five very mild electrical
shocks of 100 molts each lasting 50
milliseconds actually mimic of what we
know the output from mechano receptors
look like so we try to mimic that a
mechano sensor signal is coming from the
Bell where we suspect The mechano
receptors are situated and that then we
projected that signal into the stall
nerve here as uh the stimulus and what
we could show after only five of these
mile electrical stimulations they start
responding to lower contrast
Roots so this again with this classical
conditioning uh supported that they are
actually able to do this associative
learning but of course again we needed
to do control experiments uh so one of
the control experiments we did was no
conditioning so we just let time pass uh
and we pressed the bottom just to make
it exact same but there was no voltage
connected H and what we see of course is
that they still respond to the high
contrast but not to the lower afterwards
so no change in Behavior there no
learning we did see actually a stronger
response here afterwards and and why
that happened we cannot explain uh but
there was some strange change happening
over time
here uh but no response to lower
contrast but what we then also did was
uh do the no correlation test with where
the unconditioned and the conditioned
stimulus what was randomly arranged in
time uh and then what we could see again
was that both the naive and afterwards
the animal that have had the stimulation
would only respond to the strong
stimulation this the high contrast so
all of this uh all supported the the
conclusion that that these jellyfish
actually do Advanced uh learning in in
as as associative learning and and what
they basically do is that they they
learn to predict a mechanical uh stress
situation from the visual input and
avoid that future stress by turning
earlier and that actually makes it uh a
little more it's it's a more advanced
kind of associative learning this what
is called Opera
conditioning um so this this was we were
really excited about this and and one
thing that is of course also really nice
is that since we can show that this
happens in the Ralia after we have
dissected the off it means that the
circuitry behind all this must be in the
rellan nervous system so we know that
this happens in these 1,000
neurons uh so so so that of course makes
it very easy now hope not very easy
that's definitely an exaggeration but it
but it allows us now to pinpoint which
part of of the nervous system that we we
should address to try and and find the
mechanisms behind this and and it was
the first time outside uh batarians with
conventional brains that we could show
this this kind of of learning def def
definitely and and one thing we also I
personally find a a very fascinating
results is that uh depending on of
course how you consider the com J is the
Ten of force and and where they are in
evolution this is is is debated at the
moment but but at least classically
Nigerians is the first group the
earliest group to evolve a nervous
system
so what this indicates is that already
in the very early evolution of neurons
you would have many of the advanced
properties present such as as associ of
learning might have been present in in
the very first nervous systems and might
actually have been one of the reasons
why there have been such strong
selection pressure of keeping the
nervous system throughout uh the the
animal kingdom afterwards uh this of
course is is a postulate so so what
we're also doing now is is trying to
show that that other Nigerians with even
simpler nervous system than than
tripedalia will also display associative
learning so so this is one of the way we
are we are now progressing this work but
but what I I am really most excited
about is is this that we can now show
that the learning happens in these 1,000
uh neurons in the rupia so now we want
to hopefully use this as as a a model
system to understand down to to the the
molecular and cell level what exactly
happens in a neuron when associative
learning is taking place uh so so the
first job that we're in the middle of
now is is to make a connectome of these
1,000 neurons um so what we're doing is
that we are uh doing serial block phas
sem uh where we can have a resolution of
of five nanometers in the XY uh plane
and and 30 nmet in the C plane uh and
this gives us 3,200 sections of of this
Ral nervous system um and and this took
us three weeks to scan and and gave us
nice three terabytes of data uh so
basically what we want to do now in the
connect home is of course map out every
single neuron and importantly with this
resolution we can also map out every
single sinapse and we can see whether
it's a bidirectional sign upse or an uni
Direction sign apps so we can basically
map out every single uh you can say
wiring uh and every single um Connection
in in this here and what we will then be
looking at of course is a part of this
wiring system where uh information comes
from the lower lens eye the visual
information and information comes from
mechan receptors through the stalk and
where this information is integrated in
the repan nervous system that's at least
where we would hypothesize that is where
learning must happen and once we have
pinpointed that circuit in here we will
go in with molecular methods and
intercellular ephys and then we will try
and pinpoint how do these cells change
before and after this learning process
and thereby hopefully get some really
nice detailed understanding of of these
changes that that happens during
learning uh but it's of course not not
in in in something that is done easily
and and even though there's only a
thousand neurons this is a major work
work task so we're hoping that machine
learning uh will will allow us to to map
this uh very fast but but you probably
all know that that machine learning is
is not a Time savior until you've done a
lot of training trials so right now I I
have a very lucky postto that is sitting
with all these images and and are doing
all these uh the training of the machine
learning uh but hopefully she will have
a a preliminary connectum sometime next
year and and then we will start
pinpointing the the circuitry uh behind
this this uh this learning that we
see but but uh that will be for the
future to show if if we are successful
in
this so I I think uh time is time is is
up so so just to to summarize here in
the end I so what I have hopefully shown
you here is that that box jellyfish are
special because they they have much more
advanced behaviors than than other
jellyfish which was what sort of caught
our attention in the beginning and and
this is uh at least partly due to them
having a very Advanced visual system
with with 24 eyes of which uh there are
four different types and two of these
types are are image forming basically
the same type of eyes as we have uh but
these eyes filter the information
strongly they have low special
resolution they are pretty slow and and
color blind but still this information
is enough to control different kinds of
behaviors and and what I focused on here
was the obstacle avoidance behavior and
and navigating the habitat and what we
also saw that was important for the
learning was that during these obstacle
avoidance behaviors they used their uh
contrast between the the root and the
surrounding water to uh as a proxy for
the distance and this uh makes
it important for them to be able to
learn this because that uh relationship
between contrast and distance is is not
constant so on a daily basis they learn
by combining mechanical and visual input
and associative learning to to turn at
the proper time and and what we also
learned and which is what we are now
focusing on understanding better is that
this this central part of of trib lcns
the Ral nervous system is where this
learning takes place and we now want to
understand what happens in in this in
the circuitry uh during
learning and of course uh there's been a
lot of of people involved in in in doing
the work here and and hopefully or
luckily enough also a bit of money to uh
to do it so and thanks for your
attention so if there are any more
questions I'm of course happy to to
discuss this some more yeah thanks very
much that was super cool um one one one
question with the system uh in the early
embryonic stages how how much plasticity
is there can you do um cut and paste can
you uh misexpress genes like what is the
yeah we would I would love to be able to
give you a very exact answer to this
this one of the things we look into we
we have the uh unfortunate situation
that we can only have these animals
reproducing asexually in the um in the
culture so we don't have sexual
reproduction so we don't get embryos but
we're working on that and what we really
want to get going is um uh crisper cast
in this system and and try these exact
things and and see how how plastic is
this we want to look at at eye
development and try and knock out some
of these genes and and once we know the
neurons behind this we definitely also
want to look into this but what we do
see is that just by looking at at the
gross morphology of the animal is that
there is a huge plasticity we in the
wild often find animals missing one or
two Ralia and at at a full grown stage
so so that definitely shows that uh it's
not it's not necessary to have all four
to survive they they can survive with
with less and I think that's that is
sort of a classical lesson learned from
narian is is that this radio symmetry
that results in duplications of all the
system leads to a lot of
redundancy so so a lot of the things are
basically there just because the way
they grow they they reproduce things in
a radios symmetric fashion but they
could in in principle um easily spare a
lot of it
and and and in the in the asexual phase
can you do um grafting experiments if
you introduce new tissues does that work
or no uh we have not tried with these
ones uh this can be done I don't know if
you saw there was a very cool paper last
week on antenna force and corology where
they crafted two two individuals
together uh and and actually make them
survive of course a very unnatural
situation but but successful and and
what we can show is that that not of
course have extreme uh regeneration
powers and and uh they can reverse the
life cycle and and um the the cubones do
it in a pretty spectacular way they have
in in their got what is called gastric
filaments which are these finger-like
structures that has a lot of of enzyme
producing cells and lot of neaty and
they can detach from from the tissue and
then they can swim out through the mouth
of the jellyfish if it's not doing well
and then that would and it looks like a
separate animal it swims around it looks
like it's exploring its surroundings and
once it finds the proper place it
settles and Metamorphoses into a
polyp and then that polyp will of course
at at at certain point start to
metamorphis and make new jellyfish and
and the reason for this is that the
polyps are much more Hardy than than the
Medusa so if it's poor conditions they
have a higher survival raid as as polyps
but direct crafting we haven't
tested that was a great talk thanks um I
studied uh a color vision in butterflies
for my PhD and this reminds me a little
bit of the caterpillars which have very
simple eyes compared to the omati of the
adults yeah one cool thing we saw in
caterpillars and butterflies is even
even though it looked like they had
monochromatic Vision based on their
their photo receptors uh some of their
eyes actually had these filtering
pigments that they had for part of their
eye and by filtering the light that was
coming in they could distinguish
wavelengths even with only one type of
photo receptor so I'm wondering if
you've looked at just something simple
like ey shine to see what's coming back
out to try to analyze what's going in
these do not have ey shine uh but we
have measured the optical properties
using microspectral photometry of all
the different kind of tissues and there
are no such uh pigments anywhere uh so
but but uh just to to to make an
interesting we we're actually just
publishing this now just submitted the
paper uh the slid eye which is this more
simple eye what we just find now because
what what just one step back is that
what has always intrigued me and and and
you know this if you worked in in insect
vision is that many animals has have a
huge amount of of number of of
opsy excesses number and and we don't
understand why and and even Hydra has 40
opsin genes even though it doesn't even
have eyes so so I've been looking into
what is this is this redundancy again do
they just have duplicated these genes
and and they have hung around for weird
reasons so we looking at the expression
and in tribalia we find 19 opsin but
every single one of them has a very def
definitive expression patterns they're
very separate all of them and what we
found in the slid eye are four different
options uh so the slit eye might
actually have color vision and and uh uh
if you note some B in susex uh he he
proposed this very interesting
hypothesis about color vision the
evolution of color vision there was this
old theory that it was it was uh good
because color constancy allows you to
recognize objects even though the visual
world is changing but what he He
suggests is that it's actually a very
good way to determine distance uh
because color contrast goes away much
faster even than just intensity contrast
so you can buy by by comparing different
photo receptors with different pigments
you can have a pretty accurate distance
determination and he've shown that the
way the circuitry is in in SE fish
actually indicates that this is very
likely the way it originally evolved and
then later on uh color came me as as a
proper information channel uh so we
we're looking into whether that might be
the case here that they use this for
distance
determination the the detection also or
whether it's actually proper coloris
well we don't know yet
I have a continue question about uh
learning you mentioned that you're doing
connectons uh what about um changing or
or trying to measure the response time
of neurons uh individual neuron as a
result of of stimulus like the oin Oxley
was from giant squid so why not the new
stdp from jellyish yes we we're
definitely looking into that also uh and
and we will do intercellular recordings
uh once we have have seen seen the
circuitry we we think we're pinpointing
circuitry this is one of the things we
will do and and definitely we will also
look into if this is one of the
parameters that might might be variable
certainly it seems like that you have
really close to it because if you have
subsystem of different uh different um
specialist and you can measure how much
inhibition and excitation each one of
the subsystem have on the same decision
that's kind of you almost right there
yeah yeah we hope I mean this is some of
the things we hope uh to do one thing
that is that is of course um problematic
with with all the inia electrophysiology
is that that we we're poking a little
bit in in in the darkness here it we
can't visualize the cells we we're
aiming at and and the the neurites and
the cell bodies are tiny so so the
success rate is is is is is not high but
but we are we are we're getting better
by the day but but it's definitely some
of the things we we hope to be able to
do in the
future thank you cool cool Le
thanks yeah great great talk I was
curious um do do you just check if they
have dedicated touch sensors or do these
things basically um sense mechanic mecal
simulation directly through like
stretching of of some of these Ops for
example they probably do both uh but
they do have dedicated receptors they
have ciliary mechanic receptors evenly
distributed in their skin uh so so we we
at least our hypothesis that these are
the ones that register the uh the
bumping into objects okay and do they do
electric sensing with those same
sometimes the same mechanism can also be
used for electr sensing yeah yeah uh we
have no evidence of them doing that okay
interesting we haven't I can only we
haven't done very thorough testing uh
but we also we don't see any indications
in in the behavior or or in the wild
that that they would need to do this or
have the
ability cool
thanks I just wanted to make a quick
comment based upon the previous part of
the discussion about uh finding all
these uh large number of Ops and genes
yeah and I was reading some time ago
that um even in humans the there are
these opsin genes that are or opsins
that are expressed in all different
kinds of tissues not just on the surface
tissues even in the inside and there is
some hypothesis that opsins might also
be acting as thermal sensors um in
nonvisual tissues so um just wanted to
make that comment yeah yeah yeah
definitely I mean uh they they have many
functions that's that's for sure and and
of course they share in evolutionary
history with uh other gpcr uh and and
and all Factory receptors so so
basically when when you look at at the
opson tree uh the basil things there are
doing different things than than vision